[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi, I'm Matt Boles, alerting
specialist with Brightcove.
In this developer
basics video, we're
going to write code
to autoplay a video.
It might seem we could use
the play method right here
and the video would play.
Actually, this might
work, but we can't write
code that doesn't always work.
The reason this won't work is
we would be asking for problems
with race conditions.
Specifically, we are betting
the video is in the player
and ready to play before
the play method is executed.
We just can't take that chance.
So two issues need
to be addressed.
They are, one,
remedy the situation
of a video with an audio
track won't autoplay.
Number two, be sure
the video is loaded
and ready to be played before
calling the play method.
The muted method is used to be
sure the audio track will not
play, and thus allowing
the video to autoplay.
To be sure the video is
loaded and ready to play
in the player, the loaded
metadata event is used.
The player will wait
until the loaded metadata
event is dispatched,
which ensures
the video is ready to play.
The on method is used to
add an event listener,
and an anonymous event
handler function is coded.
Now, finally, the play
method can be used,
and we know it will work.
So let's test it.
Great, it works.
It is vital to
understand the player
and video are
different entities.
We must consider
when both of loaded
and are ready to be used.